

                Class 06


Requirement 1:
to create the basic solar system and deploy it in the main branch
Requirement 2:
the feature SUN needs to be added
Requirement 3:
Please add 2 planets in the solar system along with their specifications
please make sure to hire 2 persons to do the job in parallel.
USER_X:
1. clone the project
2. make a branch of planet
3. add some code for planet
4. commit the code and make sure it is error free
5. push to the remote
6. once reviewed by team lead then merge the code of planet to the main
branch
USER_Y:
1. clone the project
2. make a branch of planet
3. add some code for planet
4. commit the code and make sure it is error free
5. push to the remote
6. once reviewed by team lead then merge the code of planet to the main
branch
TEAMLEAD:
view the code of planets and after checking it merge it to main branch
once the userX is done with work he will open a pull rewust to merge in
main
---------Team Lead task------
Merge:
1. On github-->u can not run the code of memeber and check for errors,
you can just look at it
2. On computer-->you can test their code before merging .
-------On computer using terminal------
1. clone the project.
2. git branch -a --> shows u all the branches on github llowed


3. git checkout branchname--> clone the branch u want
4. run the cod eof branch make sure it is error free
5. switch to parent branch
6. git merge childbranch
7. once done u can update ur main in github
--------------------------------Stashing--------------------
---stashing
Requirements:
Create a car and upload it to github.
git stash -m "message"--> take the changes in code to stashing area
and  return the condition of working directory to that fo the last commit.
git stash list --> list all available stashes
git stash apply stashnumber--- > apply that stash on the intellij


Notes:
if u have made the commit in your branch
and u are trying to switch
but git doesn't allow u to switch because it says there are some untracked
files that needs to be dealt
do git status to see what are those file;
if we did not make these updates simply get rid of them
by using the command
git stash -u
and then
switch back to ur desired branch


* When ever we clone , by default git is going to clone only the main branch

